hey Jew tubers it's karma and in today's
video we're going to be I'm going to be
answering one of the questions I get
often and that is if you should read the
books some people are surprised to know
that the Game of Thrones TV show is
based off a book series but the name of
the series isn't Game of Thrones it's a
Song of Ice and Fire and then you have
the name of each individual book the
first in the series of Song of Ice and
Fire it's Game of Thrones and Clash of
Kings and so on but to the question if
I'm just a show watcher should I read
the books if the show basically sums up
the entirety of them in 10 episodes the
answer to that is a maybe the books
doing an enormous amount of storytelling
they give you more information on one
topic thing that you could hope for
remember that one guy in that one scene
well turns out he has a name a
background story his aunt was related to
one of the main characters and one time
he sat next to Ned Stark and they shared
a dirty joke and so on and so forth get
what I'm saying better example is during
the red wedding during a you know Robin
Catelyn and his wife are getting
destroyed but in the books they haven't
liked more things happen more names
you've likely heard or mentioned and
George makes you feel almost as though
you're there with how detailed
everything is right down to the food in
the show you just know that Rob and his
homies are there and they all get fucked
up no names it just happens
it's a slaughter and that's basically it
I started reading the books because a
buddy of mine let me borrow it and
shortly after he died so I was kind of
compelled to read it in his memory when
it came to certain things you know you
like and you're so into it that you want
to know more about it you go into it
more one example with me is the Halo
game series I loved Halo 3 and I want to
know more about that universe then just
like what the games just told me another
friend of mine gave me the book halo
fall of reach would tell it which tells
the story of how the main series
protagonist got to where he is and what
happened to get him to that point and so
on however with other series that's a
problem it's not that straightforward
take for instance Star Wars who doesn't
love that but then you realize it's been
around for a long time and then you
realize again that it's for the past
thirty years everybody with their own
imagination of how the story should go
has gotten a hold of it and either
ruined it or made it great in some way I
was born in 1991 and I got into Star
Wars around 1999 I love watching a new
hope which was my first Star Wars movie
and then I got into the other one to the
nepo so one came out which I thought was
okay until I
grew up and realized episode 1 was
fucking terrible but as I grew up I got
into the idea of books telling a much
bigger story than what was on the screen
I wanted to get into Star Wars through
the books because after the third movie
we all believed that that was it there
were so many books to choose from I
couldn't get a grasp on where to start
the timeline on Star Wars is so vast and
so much shit has happened before and
after both trilogies it was overwhelming
I didn't know where to start where
should I begin after uh after Return of
the Jedi or before the Phantom Menace I
didn't even know where to begin there's
just so many and then like a new book
comes out after the one you just read
that details more before what you just
read and it's just so full of plot holes
because every artist wants to do their
own thing and they have like a bunch of
stuff to work with but it's just it's
just a complete mess and I'm kind of I'm
kind of glad that Disney comes in and is
trying to clean it up but I'm also sad
because some of the books I read in the
universe are great but anyways back to
the original question sorry the game of
thrones television show in my opinion is
an alternate universe to what happens in
the book and it's an it's an abridged
version basically in the show for
example there are big and small changes
one example is Ned Stark is going
towards his room and in the book he
takes a left down the hall to get to his
chambers but in the show he takes a
right that's an example of a small small
small detail another example is in the
book bran meets a mysterious person
beyond the walled called cold hands in
the show he doesn't do that so the
question you need to ask yourself is
this how much do I enjoy the show do I
want to know more than what is given and
what can I expect uh well I can tell you
is that if you do decide to read them be
prepared for a vast amount of
information that can be incredibly
confusing at times he constantly
introduces new characters and it almost
becomes a bit overwhelming but because
you've seen the show you have a grasp of
it you'll also be surprised to notice
that some guys who are background extras
have names
I remember one scene when Ned Stark is
being arrested the book mentioned
several named guards who are being
killed by the hand and the gold cloaks
which you really didn't get to learn in
the show the book doesn't go into extra
scenes that the show provides however
one example is season 1 one of my
favorite scenes is between Robert and
Cersei before Ned Stark and Jaime
have their encounter that doesn't happen
in the book in book 1 because the book
focuses on character's point of view per
chapter Robert and Cersei aren't
point-of-view characters in book 1 and
the book and book 1 mainly focuses on a
lot of the Starks with some outside
characters like Tyrion and Dany so my
point is this
if you like the show a lot and you want
to know more about its background or you
just want to revisit it with more at
your disposal then read the books
because it does offer a lot of insight
into what's happening at that scene
you've already seen probably a dozen
times one thing I will say is that when
you do read the books a fun part of it
is the amount of mysteries the book
gives you so many mysteries that the
show has left out we all know the main
mystery of who's Jon Snow's mother is
that is one of the show's mysteries but
it's more of a bigger question in the
books there's also the mystery of who is
cold hands
what is the Song of Ice and Fire is it a
song or a prophecy come true who is the
chosen one that will bring balance to
the force but believe it or not there's
actually a prophecy like that in the
series but I highly doubt that it will
ever make its way into the show that's
just the fun of the books it gives you
more to think about when you watch an
episode of the show you think about it
for an hour too and that's it but when
you read the books you start to think
who the fuck is that guy could he be
that guy that legend foretold is that
guy's real identity is that guy's the
son from before you're constantly
guessing and theorizing on what's
happening or what will happen next which
is a lot of fun for some people I myself
I don't like a lot of the fan theories
myself I'll go into it in another video
why I don't but to sum it all up if
you're a casual fan who just wants to
keep your experience to just watching
the show that is completely fine but if
you're also curious and you want to dive
into more about the world feel free to
pick up the books I'm sure you can find
them at a discount price on eBay or
Amazon a buddy of mine just got all of
them for 20 bucks but do be warned if
you do go into it George Morgan doesn't
write it as fast as you'd think
so you'd finish the fifth book but be
prepared away like a few more years for
the six book oh I know weird advice if
you do start reading please stay away
from the hardcore fans one of the
reasons I stated before about why I hate
going on Facebook fan pages are form is
mainly because a lot of the people in
them are hardcore fans who criticize
others for their lack of a certain
character I was on another youtubers
comment section and my channel name came
and one guy said about me and I quote
yeah that common guys a fag he's
probably a Danny fan unquote that's what
he said
so I'm a fag because I like Danny what
first off she's at my favorite character
all I said was I think the actress who
plays Danny is hot and I like to suck
her titties that doesn't mean I like her
it just means I want to lick them clear
difference but even if I did like Danny
why does that mean I'm a terrible person
you see what I mean here hardcore fans
of this series and I'm sure of other
series as well always try to turn the
liking of characters into a high school
courtyard caste system you like Danny
get out of here loser
you like Tyrion oh well then by all
means sit next to me have a seat can I
jerk you off it's ridiculous so if
you're new to the book series just try
and stay away from that sort of thing
because it does get a little
discouraging these books are fun to read
and we should all enjoy them without
having one guy to wear who wears a wig
to all the screenings telling us who you
can and can't like I also highly
recommend starting with the first book
because even though it follows the first
season almost the letter
there are several plot points they leave
out that you would be confused about
later if you start off on the fourth
book so yeah if you do decide to read
the books let me know in the comment
section if you're already reading them
let me know where you are and yeah
thanks for watching sorry this video got
dragged on a little too long and have a
good one